In response to the threat presented by Shor's Algorithm, The National Institute for Standards in Technology (NIST) held a public competition to standardize a post-quantum cryptographic scheme resistant to Shor's Algorithm. Of the four algorithms eventually selected to proceed by NIST, three of the four algorithms utilized the *Learning with Errors* (LWE) problem in order to guarantee security. LWE effectively combines two mathematical problems, the Closest Vector Problem (CVP) and the Shortest Vector Problem (SVP) in order to guarantee security [@blanco-chaconRingLearningErrors2019]. SVP is defined as follows. Note that the magnitude of a vector $v$ is given with the following formula [@schneierAppliedCryptographyProtocols1996] : 
$$ || v || = \sqrt{\sum_{i = 1}^n v^2_i}$$
Now, given a lattice $L$, imagine finding a vector $x \in L$ such that for every $y \in L$, the magnitude $||x|| \leq ||y||$ - essentially, the smallest vector problem. CVP is very similar: given a point $y \in \mathbb{R}^n$, find a vector $x$ such that for all other vectors $z \in L$, $|| y - x || \leq || y - z||$ - in essence, you are finding the closest vector to a point. 

LWE effectively combines both the CVP and SVP problems for a lattice of many dimensions in order to guarantee security - while these problems are feasible to solve in a few dimensions, adding dimensions to this problem greatly increases its difficulty to a level considered unbreakable by quantum computers with current knowledge. 

However, LWE is also much less efficient than the state-of-the-art ECC or RSA. Whereas ECC is commonly accepted as fast, viable, and secure even in low performance devices [@dhillonEllipticCurveCryptography2016], LWE is only approaching [@khalidLatticebasedCryptographyIoT2019] [@guillenPostquantumSecurityIoT2017], [@seyhanLatticebasedCryptosystemsSecurity2022] that designation. However, early results are very promising in regards to CPU performance [@akleylekNewLatticebasedAuthentication2022].  
