# Quantum Computing
The vast majority of computers follow a classical computing model. In fact, classical computing has become (rightfully so) synonymous with computation as a whole. Classical computers are precise and exact: they store data in a concrete and binary manner, in units of bits. Computation occurs through logic gates and electrical circuits; these calculations have little to no noise associated with them. As a result, ironically, classical computers are slow: classical computers perform jobs thoroughly, exactly, yet slowly. 

The preciseness and reliability of classical computers, however, are extremely useful. At scale, classical computers are still fast enough to solve most problems demanded of them; additionally, algebraic and computational theory has evolved to a sufficient maturity to which the drawbacks associated with classical computers are not true drawbacks in the majority of cases. However, due to their fundamentally thorough nature, classical computers still remain limited. 

Quantum computing, however, acts as a complement to classical computing models. Fittingly taking advantage of the notoriously unpredictable principles of quantum mechanics, such as superposition, quantum computers are notoriously difficult to work with. Rather than classical bits, which can either be 0 or 1 (denoting on or off on a circuit board, and 0 or 1 mathematically), quantum computers store data in qubits, which oscillate freely between 0 and 1 and may even simultaneously occupy multiple values. Where classical computers emphasize accuracy and preciseness, quantum computers are noisy and unpredictable. In fact, the very act of attempting to gauge the value of a qubit can effect not only its value, but the value of other qubits. 

However, the seemingly paradoxical and imprecise nature of quantum computing also belies its greatest strength. Because quantum computers can store and process massive amounts of data simultaneously, they are a great fit for applications such as scientific simulations, which often do not require the accuracy of classical computers but desire the power of quantum computers. For this, and many other tasks which often require brute-force methods on classical computers, quantum computers show promise as the compute ideology of the future. One such application, named Shor's Algorithm, threatens nearly all modern security. 

However, while quantum computers have matured at an extraordinary pace, quantum computers are, compared to their classical counterparts, infants. Even the largest quantum computers struggle to reach qubit counts above 100, rendering current quantum computers useless for the vast majority of applications. For this reason, most optimism regarding quantum computing is limited to future possibilities. However, quantum computers have grown exponentially in the past decade; with increasing interest from government and private parties alike, all of which are eager to unearth its power, quantum computing may become viable much sooner than current estimates project. 